chore(node-restart): Adding docs for node-restart experiment (#412)
litmuschaos/litmus-docs: docs/node-restart.md

---
id: node-restart
title: Node Restart Experiment Details
sidebar_label: Node Restart
---
------

## Experiment Metadata

<table>
  <tr>
    <th> Type </th>
    <th>  Description  </th>
    <th> Tested K8s Platform </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> Generic </td>
    <td> Restart the target node </td>
    <td> GKE, EKS </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Prerequisites

- Ensure that the Litmus Chaos Operator is running by executing `kubectl get pods` in operator namespace (typically, `litmus`). If not, install from [here](https://docs.litmuschaos.io/docs/getstarted/#install-litmus)

> - Ensure that the `node-restart` experiment resource is available in the cluster by executing `kubectl get chaosexperiments` in the desired namespace If not, install from [here](https://hub.litmuschaos.io/api/chaos/master?file=charts/generic/node-restart/experiment.yaml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure that the `node-restart` experiment resource is available in the cluster by executing `kubectl get chaosexperiments` in the desired namespace. If not, install from [here](https://hub.litmuschaos.io/api/chaos/master?file=charts/generic/node-restart/experiment.yaml)
```

> - Ensure to create a Kubernetes secret having the rsa-key needed for ssh in the `CHAOS_NAMESPACE`. A sample secret file looks like:

Reviewer 2: I think `CHAOS_NAMESPACE` should be replaced by `TARGET_NODE`, if I understand the sentence correctly.
Maybe should be rephrased to something like:
```
Create a Kubernetes secret having the private SSH key for `SSH_USER` used to connect to `TARGET_NODE`
```

Reviewer 2: Also it's very important that the secret is named `id-rsa`, not sure if that should be specified somewhere in the doc.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: id-rsa
type: Opaque
stringData:
  ssh-privatekey: |-
  # Add the private key for ssh here
```

## Entry-Criteria

-  Application pods should be healthy before chaos injection.
-  Target Nodes should be in Ready state before chaos injection.

## Exit-Criteria

- Application pods should be healthy after chaos injection.
- Target Nodes should be in Ready state after chaos injection.

## Details

> -   Causes chaos to disrupt state of node for a certain chaos duration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Causes chaos to disrupt state of node by restarting it. 
```

(we don't really wait for duration)

-   Tests deployment sanity (replica availability & uninterrupted service) and recovery workflows of the application pod

## Integrations

-   Node Restart can be effected using the chaos library: `litmus`.

> -   The desired chaoslib can be selected by setting the above options as value for the env variable `LIB`

Reviewer: Right now we only have native support, so the second line can be omitted

---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: node-restart-sa
  labels:
    name: node-restart-sa
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: litmus
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: node-restart-sa
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: node-restart-sa
  namespace: default
```

### Prepare ChaosEngine

- Provide the application info in `spec.appinfo`
- Provide the auxiliary applications info (ns & labels) in `spec.auxiliaryAppInfo`
- Override the experiment tunables if desired in `experiments.spec.components.env`
- To understand the values to provided in a ChaosEngine specification, refer [ChaosEngine Concepts](chaosengine-concepts.md)

#### Supported Experiment Tunables

<table>
  <tr>
    <th> Variables </th>
    <th> Description </th>
    <th> Specify In ChaosEngine </th>
    <th> Notes </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> LIB_IMAGE  </td>
    <td> The image used to restart the node </td>
    <td> Optional </td>
    <td> Defaults to `litmuschaos/go-runner:latest` </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> SSH_USER  </td>
    <td> name of ssh user </td>
    <td> Mandatory </td>
    <td> Defaults to `root` </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td> TARGET_NODES </td>

Reviewer 2: Unless I am missing something I think this won't work with the command separated list, but only as a single value.

Author: I made those modifications to my open PR but due to the increment of blast-radius. I rollback the changes to the `TARGET_NODE`(one node) only.

    <td> comma separated list of target nodes, subjected to chaos </td>
    <td> Mandatory </td>
    <td>  </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> TARGET_NODE_IPS </td>
    <td> comma separated list of target node ips, subjected to chaos </td>

>     <td> Mandatory </td>

Reviewer 2: Unless I am missing something I think this won't work with the command separated list, but only as a single value.

  engineState: 'active'
  #ex. values: ns1:name=percona,ns2:run=nginx 
  auxiliaryAppInfo: ''
  appinfo:
    appns: 'default'
    applabel: 'app=nginx'
    appkind: 'deployment'
  chaosServiceAccount: node-restart-sa
  monitoring: false
  # It can be delete/retain
  jobCleanUpPolicy: 'delete'
  experiments:
    - name: node-restart
      spec:
        components:
          nodeSelector: 
            # provide the node labels
            kubernetes.io/hostname: 'node02'  
          env:
             # ENTER THE TARGET NODE NAME
            - name: TARGET_NODE
              value: 'node01'

            # ENTER THE TARGET NODE IP
            - name: TARGET_NODE_IP
              value: ''

             # ENTER THE USER TO BE USED FOR SSH AUTH
            - name: SSH_USER
              value: ''
```

### Create the ChaosEngine Resource

- Create the ChaosEngine manifest prepared in the previous step to trigger the Chaos.

  `kubectl apply -f chaosengine.yml`

- If the chaos experiment is not executed, refer to the [troubleshooting](https://docs.litmuschaos.io/docs/faq-troubleshooting/) 
  section to identify the root cause and fix the issues.

### Watch Chaos progress

> - View the status of the nodess as they are subjected to node restart. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- View the status of the nodes as they are subjected to node restart. 
```
